# Prony-Brake-Dynamometer

The Rice Robotics Club (RRC) relies on precise torque and speed measurements from the motors they source from manufacturers to optimize their design projects. However, the manufacturer's specifications often differ from actual performance in robotic systems for their various projects. To address this, RRC requires an accurate dynamometer for testing their sourced motors to confirm the validity of its output. Unfortunately, high-quality dynamometer sensors are prohibitively expensive, with costs ranging between $3,500 and $5,000. The goal of this project is to adapt a generalizable low-cost, force-torque sensor design to help RRC validate motor specifications effectively that can be utilized on various motors.

Currently, RRC lacks a suitable sensor for measuring the power and speed of the motors they order online. To overcome this limitation, the team has identified the concept of a "Prony Brake" as a viable solution. This approach combines torque measurement generated from a load cell with speed detection via a photo sensor to accurately calculate motor power. Given the diverse scale of RRC’s projects, the proposed design must be adaptable to meet the varying needs of different teams through modifiable electronics and motor mounts. The developed torquemeter will offer a cost-effective and scalable solution for RRC to evaluate motor performance across their projects.

Full Manual Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Em6qAzFSpT7cylmW71L3VaVRsoJVXcqhiaeqJvj4a4M/edit?usp=sharing
